[Music]
The elder respectfully asks the audience for a
follow-up question. And for those who have direct questions,
we will ask them directly.
Next question:
Dear Ms. Yen and all the audience,
I have a
question. Could you please explain the difference between
saving and stinginess?
Last time, I helped the temple
distribute paper napkins, and I found that each napkin was made from two thin sheets, but they only had one thin sheet. When I asked, they said it was to
save for the
temple. Now, I would like to ask, what is considered
saving and what is considered stinginess? Saving
means having just enough, okay everyone?
Saving means having just enough. Stinginess means
not having enough. Do you understand? For example, if
I ask someone, "Excuse me, could you give me a
meal?", I would look at the
person, see how much they weigh and
how tall they are, then
I would start to figure out
how much food is needed, and give them enough. That's saving,
right? It involves
thinking, so we can save.
What about stinginess? Right
here, Yen is talking about our
mindset. Let's see if we have a thrifty mindset
or a stingy mindset. We have to
evaluate the weakness of our mindset after we think
about what the person asking for this will use it for. If
we do exactly what we're asking for,
then we're called thrifty. But what about
when we see someone
doing something like, "Oh my god, all day long they just ask for it,
so I'll give it to them to avoid waste"?
Do you understand? Then if we give without
thinking about what the person asking us will use it for,
we'll fall into a
stingy mindset. Do you understand?
For example, take a napkin. We
fold it to make a napkin, but we know that
napkins are for wiping things like our mouths and
other things that might
spill. We have to consider that
it's just enough because we're also
eaters, we know that this meal is
for adults, so the amount of spillage is
minimal, right? So
when we wipe with a napkin, we use it
sparingly, so...  We do just enough so that
we can wipe our mouths and hands.
If anything falls, we call that being
thoughtful, that's called saving. But
those who don't think about it just rush, thinking, "Oh my god, it
has to be this much!" That means they
have no thinking at all, and that creates
waste, everyone. Those who
don't think about it also become stingy,
everyone. That is, if you give someone a
piece of paper that ca
n't even wipe their mouth or absorb the
food, that's called stinginess,
everyone. So, in
Buddhism, we are taught "minimal desires and contentment,"
meaning people should think about it, meaning they should have
few
desires, that's enough. That's enough, so
they don't crave more, everyone. Eating like
this is enough, not seeking more.
Living like this is enough,
not seeking more,
right? So, that's what we call
saving and stinginess, distinguished from our
own hearts.
What is our mind from the Buddhist perspective?  What's
called cleverness? I see many people who
speak skillfully and manipulate others to
get this or that. Some people praise
them for being clever, but through the Dharma teachings
of the teacher, I understand that's deception, not
cleverness. Deception is different, everyone. What is cleverness called
in Buddhism? In the
outside world, it's called cunning. That means
this person only knows how to benefit themselves. That's called cleverness.
Whatever benefits them, they do it. That's greed. Do you understand? Cunning means deceiving others. If they can get
something for themselves, they do it. If it's easy, they do it; if it's
easy, they
let others have it. In the outside
world, people call it cunning, but in
Buddhism, it's called ignorance. Teacher, do you
see? Ignorant, ignorant, they don't understand
merit. Do you see?
If you don't know how to give, what will happen to you? You will be
poor and suffering. That means if you don't know how to give,
you will be poor and suffering. For example, being
clever and manipulative. This person
gives something to you, but it's not yet called
deception, everyone. It's not yet called
deception. For example, if I like Ms. Dung,
she...  Sister Dung, I see you
have a tendency to favor flattery, for example. Sister,
you're so beautiful, so incredibly beautiful! Or maybe you're just too kind? You're like
this and that, and then tomorrow I'll come
to your house, Sister Dung. Oh, Sister, can I have this? Oh my god, I really need it! That's Sister Dung, because she sees people praising her, and she gives it to them. That's what people call cleverness, folks. Cleverness and
flattery, do you agree? That's how it is,
right? That's cleverness and flattery. But
in Buddhism,
we still understand karma. People
have karma with
each other, that's why they give to each other. Do
you understand? So, as
outsiders, don't judge people based on what they give to
each other. It's all about
karma, folks,
not just cleverness. This is simply because they
had karma in their previous lives, so in this
life, they give to
each other. Nothing is outside the
control of karma, folks.
But I also dislike Sister Dung.  That's all, but then
someone else came and said, "Oh, you're so beautiful!
Tomorrow, when Ms. Dung comes back, she'll tell that girl, Linh, that
clever girl, not to let her have it." That's the same
person, but they treat two people
differently. See? The karmic
consequence of that person's actions towards Ms.
Dung is that it made Ms. Dung realize
the flattering face of that person.
But with Yen, Ms. Dung didn't
realize Linh's true face and let Yen have it. Is
n't that karma? That's karma, isn't it? It's karma, who
gives whom
what is karma. But we
understand karma, so we must be
truthful. Even though it's karma,
each time something like that happens,
our truthful heart diminishes. Because our
truthful heart diminishes,
we lose blessings.
Do you understand? So let's be truthful.
For example, we're close friends with Ms. Dung, but
tomorrow we say, "Ms. Dung, I do
n't think that outfit you're wearing looks good on me."
That's just my opinion. Just be honest.
Don't judge someone by their clothes.  That's ridiculous,
even though she's beautiful.
That kind of deception will cost us our blessings. What does "losing blessings" mean? It
means we'll receive
deception from others. Because
deception is just deception, and
it will affect our finances, our finances, our
relationships, but it's still just deception.
So we must be sincere. Then
we will receive blessings when
we live sincerely. Living with a
sincere heart in this present moment will eliminate
the karma we created through
deceit in past lives. When it's
eliminated, the
consequences of
our deceitful actions will lessen. They lessen with each sincere thought. Some will
disappear completely, but some, because we were
too deceitful in a previous life, might not be completely resolved in this life,
so we'll just receive a lighter punishment.
That's it. So, we just
need to speak truthfully.
Naturally, a sincere heart will produce
accurate words. We don't need to learn any specific
words to determine what is accurate or
inaccurate.  The inherent cause and effect of a
truthful person makes their words
accurate and easy to listen to, readily
accepted by the general public. It's not about constantly
learning different speaking skills; it's
not
like that. Although learning speaking skills isn't
superfluous, if you learn them without a
sincere heart, you
won't resolve the cause and effect, and it will
become false. Cultivating a
deceitful heart is what matters. My third question is:
I have a very bad habit. When I'm doing my
job, my eyes
wander. I pay attention to how
people dress and judge them.
Sometimes I think, "Why is
this woman wearing that kind of dress?" or "Why is
that man dressed like that?" And then
I start thinking, "If this man were
in my hands, I would design his
clothes differently, he would have to dress like this or
that to look
good." Do we all have
such thoughts?
No, everyone, raise your hand.
It's just that people don't think about it;
we do it a lot. For example, I
see a child...  "What are you saying?
Why don't you say it like this instead of
that?" Teacher, do you agree? It means
that we live surrounded by
things that always go our way, and only then can we stop
this way of thinking, but our own thoughts don't
stop either. Teacher, do you agree? For
example, today we do something and
then our friends criticize us, and we go home and say, "
Why didn't I do it like this yesterday? Why did
I do it like that?" Is
n't that right? We are in conflict with those around us and in conflict with ourselves. Teacher, do you agree? So now we have to go
into the Buddha's teachings, what is it in
the Ten Virtues of Samantabhadra? It's about
conforming to sentient beings. Teacher, do you agree? Why is it about conforming
to sentient beings? We know the karma of sentient beings, so we can conform to them. I have my
karma,
so I like green. You have your karma,
so you like red.
That very thought, is it already conforming? Yes, it is.
It means I conform to
you by wearing red.  And I conform to the principle of
dressing in blue because I know that every
sentient being is governed by
karmic forces. Like is karma, and dislike is
also karma, so I can conform
to the multitude of sentient beings. If
we don't know how to conform to sentient beings, it
means we don't know how to contemplate the cause and effect of karma and
retribution. Therefore,
although we read the Ten Virtues of Samantabhadra
many times, we understand very little
and apply very little to our practice.
Because if we can conform,
we will find peace and happiness. Therefore,
in the Ten Virtues of Samantabhadra, one must:
Respect the Buddhas and Praise the Tathagata.
Respecting the Buddhas means we must always cultivate a respectful heart. Praising the Tathagata means we must always speak the truth. The Tathagata is the truth. So we must always live truthfully with ourselves. Thirdly, we must widely practice giving, meaning we must know the heart to give to others and charity.
For example,
if I am sitting here and
someone wants to sit, I can
stand up and get a chair.  I'm sitting in a
different chair, and they're sitting in this one. That's also an
offering, everyone. Giving way to
each other is also called giving and offering,
so it's called the third, broad practice of offering.
This part of offering is very broad, everyone.
Isn't giving and offering
broad, everyone? Even though it's so broad, only then do we get
to
the ninth, which is adapting to sentient beings. It's
not that if you don't practice, if you don't cultivate a
respectful mind, if you don't cultivate a
truthful mind, if you don't cultivate a mind of giving and offering,
then it will be a long time before you reach the part of adapting to sentient beings, everyone. Do
you see that? So,
if someone doesn't understand
Mahayana, if they can't practice and apply
Hinayana, they won't understand
Mahayana. When people use Buddhist
scriptures, there are two parts, Hinayana and
Mahayana. When we apply Hinayana
skillfully, we can
easily grasp Hinayana and understand it very clearly.
You should also know this:
when you see someone wearing
these clothes, you know that this is
a type of karma of sentient beings;
that is a type of karma of sentient beings.
Beings like that, and I'm also a
being who likes my way.
That's why I believe there are
countless beings, and from this, I've come to
realize that beings have many
different minds and intentions. That's right, isn't it?
When I studied Buddhist scriptures, I said, "
This is the mind with 84,000 afflictions." That's
right, isn't it? Then I realized, "
84,000 different opinions on a single
issue." They understand not just one
issue, but we beings have
84,000 thoughts and opinions on this issue,
not just a few. Over 84,000
afflictions! So you can't
say, 'You have to agree with me.' We
analyze it, and whoever agrees, we
solve the problem together.
[Applause]
[Music]